README.md, before:

# APK Malware Analysis Agent (PoC)

LLM-assisted Android APK malware analysis pipeline aligned to LAMD: deterministic preprocessing + suspicious API seeding + structured context extraction + tiered LLM reasoning with evidence gating + targeted FlowDroid taint confirmation.

## What This Implements

- Knox Vision API client for static metadata, decompiled source access, bytecode method lookup, and APK download.
- Local static extractors (manifest, strings, certs) using androguard + ZIP parsing.
- Suspicious API catalog + DEX invocation indexing (androguard) with Knox search fallback.
- Java-based Soot extractor that exports call graph JSON and per-method CFG JSON.
- Context bundle builder + basic backward slice for seed context.
- LLM agent stubs (Recon, Tier1, Verifier, Tier2, Report) with deterministic consistency checking.
- Targeted FlowDroid execution via CLI jar + sources/sinks subset generation.
- MITRE Mobile ATT&CK mapping via local rules and optional dataset fetch.
- Artifacts are stored under `artifacts/{analysis_id}/` for traceability.

## Workflow

The pipeline has two modes:

- **Combined (default):** requires the local APK path + Knox APK ID.
- **APK-only (opt-in):** requires the local APK path only, uses JADX to decompile into a temp dir, and falls back to local source search when Knox is unavailable. The temp dir is deleted after analysis.

### Combined workflow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  A[Inputs<br/>APK path + Knox APK ID] --> B[Stage A: Static Preprocess<br/>Knox metadata + local extractors]
  B --> C[Stage B: Graph Extraction<br/>Soot callgraph + CFGs]
  C --> D[Stage C: Sensitive API Matching<br/>catalog-driven hits]
  D --> E[Stage D: Recon Agent<br/>build cases]
  E --> F[Stage E: Slice Extraction<br/>case-driven CFG slices]
  F --> G[Tier-1 Summarizer<br/>function behavior]
  G --> H[Verifier<br/>consistency_check]
  H --> I[Tier-2 Intent<br/>graph reasoning]
  I --> J{Need taint confirmation?}
  J -- yes --> K[Targeted FlowDroid<br/>sources/sinks subset]
  J -- no --> L[Report Agent<br/>JSON + markdown]
  K --> L
  L --> M[Threat Report + MITRE Mapping]
```

### APK-only workflow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  A[Input<br/>APK path] --> B[Stage A: Local static extractors]
  B --> C[Stage A2: JADX decompile (temp dir)]
  C --> D[Stage B: Graph Extraction<br/>Soot callgraph + CFGs]
  D --> E[Stage C: Sensitive API Matching<br/>catalog-driven hits]
  E --> F[Stage D: Recon Agent<br/>build cases]
  F --> G[Stage E: Slice Extraction<br/>case-driven CFG slices]
  G --> H[Tier-1 Summarizer<br/>function behavior]
  H --> I[Verifier<br/>consistency_check]
  I --> J[Tier-2 Intent<br/>graph reasoning]
  J --> K{Need taint confirmation?}
  K -- yes --> L[Targeted FlowDroid<br/>sources/sinks subset]
  K -- no --> M[Report Agent<br/>JSON + markdown]
  L --> M
  M --> N[Threat Report + MITRE Mapping]
```

High-level steps:
- Build static artifacts (manifest, permissions, strings, certs, Knox indicators).
- Match sensitive API callsites from the callgraph using the catalog.
- Build callgraph and CFG slices for each seed and create context bundles.
- Run LLM agents (Recon -> Tier1 -> Verifier -> Tier2) with evidence gating.
- Run FlowDroid only if Tier2 requests taint confirmation.
- Emit report with evidence supports and MITRE mappings.

## Detailed Workflow and Tool Usage

Stage A: Static preprocess (local APK + Knox)
- **Androguard APK parser** (`src/apk_analyzer/analyzers/static_extractors.py`): extracts manifest metadata (package, version, permissions, components, SDK) from the APK.
- **ZIP parsing** (built-in `zipfile`): extracts ASCII strings from `classes*.dex` and assets; extracts cert blobs from `META-INF/*.RSA|*.DSA|*.EC`.
- **Knox Vision API** (`src/apk_analyzer/clients/knox_client.py`, combined mode): pulls full analysis, manifest, components, threat indicators; if present, Knox manifest overrides local manifest.
- **Artifacts**: `artifacts/{analysis_id}/static/manifest.json`, `strings.json`, `cert.json`, `knox_full.json`, `components.json`, `permissions.json`.

Stage A2: APK-only decompile (opt-in)
- **JADX** (`src/apk_analyzer/analyzers/jadx_extractors.py`): decompiles APK to a temp directory for local search. The temp directory is deleted after analysis.
- **Local search helper** (`src/apk_analyzer/analyzers/local_query.py`): scans JADX output (`.java`, `.kt`, `.xml`, `.smali`) for method-name hits; used only as a fallback for seeding.
- If JADX is missing or fails, the pipeline continues with DEX-only seeding (lower recall).

Stage B: Graph extraction
- **Soot extractor (Java)** (`java/soot-extractor`): builds call graph + per-method CFGs using Android platform jars.
- **Outputs**: `artifacts/{analysis_id}/graphs/callgraph.json`, `graphs/cfg/*.json`, `graphs/method_index.json`.

Stage C: Sensitive API matching (catalog-driven)
- **Sensitive API catalog** (`config/android_sensitive_api_catalog.json`): maps Soot signatures to categories, priorities, and tags.
- **Matcher** (`src/apk_analyzer/phase0/sensitive_api_matcher.py`): walks callgraph edges, matches callees to catalog signatures, and emits `sensitive_api_hits.json` with reachability hints.
- **Artifacts**: `artifacts/{analysis_id}/seeds/sensitive_api_hits.json`.

Stage D: Case-driven slices
- **Recon** builds cases from `sensitive_api_hits.json` and requests slices only where required.
- **Context bundles** (`src/apk_analyzer/analyzers/context_bundle_builder.py`): creates per-case slices and FCG neighborhoods for LLM prompts.

Stage D: LLM reasoning (dynamic-analysis focused)
- **Recon**: builds investigation cases from `sensitive_api_hits.json`.
- **Tier1**: summarizes behavior **and** extracts execution constraints (branch predicates, required inputs, triggers).
- **Verifier**: enforces evidence grounding (non-LLM consistency check).
- **Tier2**: produces a driver plan (ADB/UI Automator/Frida friendly) and environment setup checklist.
- **Artifacts**: `artifacts/{analysis_id}/llm/*` with JSON outputs.

Stage E: Targeted taint analysis (optional)
- **FlowDroid CLI jar** (`src/apk_analyzer/tools/flowdroid_tools.py`): runs taint analysis using a generated sources/sinks subset based on categories present in verified cases.
- **Usage**: summary is fed into Tier2 to suggest entrypoint triggers and taint-confirmation steps.
- **Artifacts**: `artifacts/{analysis_id}/taint/flowdroid_summary.json`.

Stage F: Reporting + MITRE mapping
- **MITRE mapping** (`config/mitre/` + `src/apk_analyzer/analyzers/mitre_mapper.py`): maps extracted evidence to ATT&CK techniques.
- **Report**: `artifacts/{analysis_id}/report/threat_report.json` and `.md`.

## Repo Layout

- `src/apk_analyzer/`: Python pipeline and agent logic
- `java/soot-extractor/`: Java Soot extractor (Gradle)
- `config/`: settings, schemas, suspicious API catalog, SourcesAndSinks, MITRE mapping
- `config/android_sensitive_api_catalog.json`: catalog-driven sensitive API definitions for recon
- `scripts/`: entrypoints and helpers
- `tests/`: unit tests
- `FlowDroid/`: upstream FlowDroid repo (for CLI build)

## Requirements (Local)

- Python >= 3.10
- JDK 17 (Soot extractor + FlowDroid)
- Android SDK platforms directory (for Soot/FlowDroid)
- Maven + Gradle (to build FlowDroid CLI jar and Soot extractor)

## Quickstart (Local)

1) Install Python deps:

```bash
python -m pip install -e .
```

2) Build the Soot extractor:

```bash
gradle -p java/soot-extractor jar
```

3) Build FlowDroid CLI jar:

```bash
mvn -f FlowDroid/pom.xml -pl soot-infoflow-cmd -am package -DskipTests
```

4) Configure `config/settings.yaml`:

- `analysis.android_platforms_dir` should point to your Android SDK `platforms/` directory.
- `analysis.flowdroid_jar_path` should point to `FlowDroid/soot-infoflow-cmd/target/soot-infoflow-cmd-jar-with-dependencies.jar`.
- `analysis.soot_extractor_jar_path` should point to `java/soot-extractor/build/libs/soot-extractor.jar`.

5) Run analysis (default combined mode requires both APK path and Knox APK ID):

```bash
python -m apk_analyzer.main --apk /path/to/app.apk --knox-id <apk_id>
```

APK-only mode (opt-in):

```bash
python -m apk_analyzer.main --mode apk-only --apk /path/to/app.apk
```

Artifacts are written under `artifacts/{analysis_id}/`.

## Docker Setup (Recommended for FlowDroid/Soot)

Docker provides a consistent Ubuntu + JDK + Android SDK environment with Android platforms 25-36 preinstalled.

### First-time setup

1) Initialize submodules (FlowDroid):

```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

2) Build the Docker image:

```bash
docker compose build
```

3) Bootstrap toolchain inside the container (Python deps + Soot extractor + FlowDroid jar):

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag ./scripts/docker_bootstrap.sh
```

By default this builds a **release** FlowDroid jar (v2.14.1) in a temp dir to avoid snapshot dependency issues.
To build from the submodule instead:

```bash
docker compose run --rm \
  -e FLOWDROID_BUILD_MODE=source \
  aag ./scripts/docker_bootstrap.sh
```

To override the release tag used for the temp build:

```bash
docker compose run --rm \
  -e FLOWDROID_TAG=v2.14.1 \
  aag ./scripts/docker_bootstrap.sh
```

### Run analysis (Docker)

Place APKs inside the repo (or mount a folder) so they are visible under `/workspace`:

```bash
cp /path/to/app.apk ./data/app.apk
```

APK + Knox ID:

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag \
  python -m apk_analyzer.main --apk /workspace/path/to/app.apk --knox-id <apk_id>
```

APK-only mode (JADX-based):

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag \
  python -m apk_analyzer.main --mode apk-only --apk /workspace/path/to/app.apk
```

Interactive shell:

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag
```

## Telemetry UI (Grafana + Tempo + Loki)

The project ships a Docker-based telemetry stack so you can inspect agent progress, LLM I/O, and tool/API spans in a browser.

### Start the UI stack

```bash
docker compose up -d grafana tempo loki otel-collector
```

### Enable telemetry in settings

Edit `config/settings.yaml`:

```yaml
telemetry:
  enabled: true
  service_name: "apk-analysis-agent"
  otlp_endpoint: "http://otel-collector:4317"
  otlp_insecure: true
```

### Run an analysis (emits traces)

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag \
  python -m apk_analyzer.main --mode apk-only --apk /workspace/path/to/app.apk
```

### Open Grafana and view traces

1) Open `http://localhost:3000` (Grafana).
2) Navigate to **Explore** -> select **Tempo** datasource.
3) Filter by attributes like:
   - `analysis_id`
   - `run_id`
   - `stage`
   - `tool_name`
4) For LLM calls, span events include:
   - `llm.input` -> `artifacts/{analysis_id}/llm_inputs/...`
   - `llm.output` -> `artifacts/{analysis_id}/llm_outputs/...`

Notes:
- Tempo stores traces; Loki is provisioned but log export is not enabled yet.
- If you change `requirements.txt` or telemetry config files, rebuild the image with `docker compose build`.

## Run Observability UI (FastAPI)

This UI is purpose-built for debugging the pipeline: it shows **seeding details, recon output, Soot stats, slice counts, Knox API calls, tool invocations, and exact LLM prompts/returns** per run.

### Start the UI server

```bash
docker compose up -d obs-ui
```

### Run an analysis (emits run ledger)

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag \
  python -m apk_analyzer.main --mode apk-only --apk /workspace/path/to/app.apk
```

### Open the UI

- Run list: `http://localhost:8000/runs`
- Run details: click an analysis/run ID to view stage timeline, seeding stats, recon output, Soot stats, API/tool events, and LLM I/O.

Each run writes its own `observability/runs/<run_id>.jsonl` log, so reruns of the same APK no longer mix trace events.
Artifacts are linked directly (e.g. `llm_inputs/`, `llm_outputs/`, `graphs/slices/`) so you can inspect the exact payloads.

### Rebuild after FlowDroid changes

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag \
  mvn -f FlowDroid/pom.xml -pl soot-infoflow-cmd -am package -DskipTests
```

### Rebuild after Soot extractor changes

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag \
  gradle -p java/soot-extractor jar
```

Notes:
- The repo is mounted at `/workspace`.
- `ANDROID_SDK_ROOT` is set to `/opt/android-sdk`, and `analysis.android_platforms_dir` auto-resolves to `/opt/android-sdk/platforms` if unset.
- `jadx` is preinstalled at `/opt/jadx/bin/jadx` and available on `PATH`.
- `KNOX_BASE_URL` defaults to `http://105.145.72.82:8081/api/v1` in `docker-compose.yml` and can be overridden via env.
- Artifacts are written to `/workspace/artifacts/{analysis_id}/` on the host.

## Input Requirements

Default (combined) mode requires both:
- `--apk` path on disk
- `--knox-id` (Knox APK ID)

APK-only mode requires:
- `--apk` path on disk
- `--mode apk-only`

## Configuration

Key settings live in `config/settings.yaml`:

- `knox.base_url`: Knox Vision API base URL.
- `analysis.android_platforms_dir`: Android SDK platforms folder.
- `analysis.flowdroid_jar_path`: FlowDroid CLI jar path.
- `analysis.soot_extractor_jar_path`: Soot extractor jar path.
- `analysis.jadx_path`: JADX binary or jar (used in apk-only mode).
- `analysis.jadx_timeout_sec`: JADX decompile timeout.
- `analysis.callgraph_algo`: `SPARK` or `CHA`.
- `analysis.k_hop`: call graph neighborhood hops.
- `analysis.max_seed_count`: maximum seeds to process.
- `llm.provider`: LLM provider (use `vertex` for API key auth).
- `llm.api_key`: API key (or use `VERTEX_API_KEY` / `GOOGLE_API_KEY` env).
- `llm.verify_ssl`: Set `false` to disable SSL verification for Vertex calls (PoC only).
- `telemetry.enabled`: Enable OpenTelemetry export.
- `telemetry.otlp_endpoint`: OTLP endpoint for traces (default `http://otel-collector:4317` in Docker).
- `observability.enabled`: Enable the run ledger (`observability/run.jsonl`) consumed by the UI.

Env overrides:

- `KNOX_BASE_URL` overrides `knox.base_url`.
- `ANDROID_SDK_ROOT` will auto-set `analysis.android_platforms_dir` to `$ANDROID_SDK_ROOT/platforms` if unset.

## Vertex AI (LLM) Setup

The PoC includes a minimal Vertex client that supports **API key auth** for public Gemini models. Enable `llm.enabled` in `config/settings.yaml` and configure an API key (supported) or add your own OAuth-based client for service accounts (not wired here).

### Option A) API key (supported)

1) Enable Vertex AI API + billing in GCP Console.

2) Create an API key in the same project.

3) Export the key (or set it in `config/settings.yaml`):

```bash
export VERTEX_API_KEY=your_api_key
```

You can also use `GOOGLE_API_KEY` if preferred.

4) Update settings:

```yaml
llm:
  enabled: true
  provider: "vertex"
  api_key: ""  # optional if VERTEX_API_KEY is set
  model_orchestrator: "gemini-2.5-flash-lite"
  model_recon: "gemini-2.5-flash-lite"
  model_tier1: "gemini-2.5-flash-lite"
  model_verifier: "gemini-2.5-flash-lite"
  model_tier2: "gemini-2.5-flash-lite"
  model_report: "gemini-2.5-flash-lite"
```

### Option B) Service account (not wired in this PoC)

If you need ADC/service-account auth (for private models), you'll need to add an OAuth-based client. The basic credential steps are:

1) Create a service account with `Vertex AI User` role.
2) Download its JSON key.
3) Set:

```bash
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/service-account.json
export GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT=<your-gcp-project-id>
export GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION=<your-region>
```

### Docker + Vertex credentials

Service account in Docker:

```bash
docker compose run --rm \
  -e GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/workspace/keys/sa.json \
  -e GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT=<project-id> \
  -e GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION=us-central1 \
  -v /local/keys:/workspace/keys \
  aag
```

API key in Docker:

```bash
docker compose run --rm \
  -e VERTEX_API_KEY=your_api_key \
  aag
```

## Tests

```bash
pytest
```

## Notes

- FlowDroid and Soot require Android platform jars. If analyses fail with classpath errors, verify `analysis.android_platforms_dir`.
- APK-only mode runs JADX in a temp directory that is deleted after analysis; if JADX is missing or fails, the pipeline falls back to DEX-only seeding with reduced recall.
- LLM integration uses Vertex API keys for public Gemini models; service-account auth requires a custom client.

Commit message:

Align reporting with driver guidance

README.md, after:

# APK Malware Analysis Agent (PoC)

LLM-assisted Android APK malware analysis pipeline aligned to LAMD: deterministic preprocessing + suspicious API seeding + structured context extraction + tiered LLM reasoning with evidence gating + targeted FlowDroid taint confirmation.

## What This Implements

- Knox Vision API client for static metadata, decompiled source access, bytecode method lookup, and APK download.
- Local static extractors (manifest, strings, certs) using androguard + ZIP parsing.
- Suspicious API catalog + DEX invocation indexing (androguard) with Knox search fallback.
- Java-based Soot extractor that exports call graph JSON and per-method CFG JSON.
- Context bundle builder + basic backward slice for seed context.
- LLM agent stubs (Recon, Tier1, Verifier, Tier2, Report) with deterministic consistency checking.
- Targeted FlowDroid execution via CLI jar + sources/sinks subset generation.
- MITRE Mobile ATT&CK mapping via local rules and optional dataset fetch.
- Artifacts are stored under `artifacts/{analysis_id}/` for traceability.

## Workflow

The pipeline has two modes:

- **Combined (default):** requires the local APK path + Knox APK ID.
- **APK-only (opt-in):** requires the local APK path only, uses JADX to decompile into a temp dir, and falls back to local source search when Knox is unavailable. The temp dir is deleted after analysis.

### Combined workflow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  A[Inputs<br/>APK path + Knox APK ID] --> B[Stage A: Static Preprocess<br/>Knox metadata + local extractors]
  B --> C[Stage B: Graph Extraction<br/>Soot callgraph + CFGs]
  C --> D[Stage C: Sensitive API Matching<br/>catalog-driven hits]
  D --> E[Stage D: Recon Agent<br/>build cases]
  E --> F[Stage E: Slice Extraction<br/>case-driven CFG slices]
  F --> G[Tier-1 Summarizer<br/>function behavior]
  G --> H[Verifier<br/>consistency_check]
  H --> I[Tier-2 Intent<br/>graph reasoning]
  I --> J{Need taint confirmation?}
  J -- yes --> K[Targeted FlowDroid<br/>sources/sinks subset]
  J -- no --> L[Report Agent<br/>JSON + markdown]
  K --> L
  L --> M[Threat Report + MITRE Mapping]
```

### APK-only workflow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  A[Input<br/>APK path] --> B[Stage A: Local static extractors]
  B --> C[Stage A2: JADX decompile (temp dir)]
  C --> D[Stage B: Graph Extraction<br/>Soot callgraph + CFGs]
  D --> E[Stage C: Sensitive API Matching<br/>catalog-driven hits]
  E --> F[Stage D: Recon Agent<br/>build cases]
  F --> G[Stage E: Slice Extraction<br/>case-driven CFG slices]
  G --> H[Tier-1 Summarizer<br/>function behavior]
  H --> I[Verifier<br/>consistency_check]
  I --> J[Tier-2 Intent<br/>graph reasoning]
  J --> K{Need taint confirmation?}
  K -- yes --> L[Targeted FlowDroid<br/>sources/sinks subset]
  K -- no --> M[Report Agent<br/>JSON + markdown]
  L --> M
  M --> N[Threat Report + MITRE Mapping]
```

High-level steps:
- Build static artifacts (manifest, permissions, strings, certs, Knox indicators).
- Match sensitive API callsites from the callgraph using the catalog.
- Build callgraph and CFG slices for each seed and create context bundles.
- Run LLM agents (Recon -> Tier1 -> Verifier -> Tier2) with evidence gating.
- Run FlowDroid only if Tier2 requests taint confirmation.
- Emit report with evidence supports and MITRE mappings.

## Detailed Workflow and Tool Usage

Stage A: Static preprocess (local APK + Knox)
- **Androguard APK parser** (`src/apk_analyzer/analyzers/static_extractors.py`): extracts manifest metadata (package, version, permissions, components, SDK) from the APK.
- **ZIP parsing** (built-in `zipfile`): extracts ASCII strings from `classes*.dex` and assets; extracts cert blobs from `META-INF/*.RSA|*.DSA|*.EC`.
- **Knox Vision API** (`src/apk_analyzer/clients/knox_client.py`, combined mode): pulls full analysis, manifest, components, threat indicators; if present, Knox manifest overrides local manifest.
- **Artifacts**: `artifacts/{analysis_id}/static/manifest.json`, `strings.json`, `cert.json`, `knox_full.json`, `components.json`, `permissions.json`.

Stage A2: APK-only decompile (opt-in)
- **JADX** (`src/apk_analyzer/analyzers/jadx_extractors.py`): decompiles APK to a temp directory for local search. The temp directory is deleted after analysis.
- **Local search helper** (`src/apk_analyzer/analyzers/local_query.py`): scans JADX output (`.java`, `.kt`, `.xml`, `.smali`) for method-name hits; used only as a fallback for seeding.
- If JADX is missing or fails, the pipeline continues with DEX-only seeding (lower recall).

Stage B: Graph extraction
- **Soot extractor (Java)** (`java/soot-extractor`): builds call graph + per-method CFGs using Android platform jars.
- **Outputs**: `artifacts/{analysis_id}/graphs/callgraph.json`, `graphs/cfg/*.json`, `graphs/method_index.json`.

Stage C: Sensitive API matching (catalog-driven)
- **Sensitive API catalog** (`config/android_sensitive_api_catalog.json`): maps Soot signatures to categories, priorities, and tags.
- **Matcher** (`src/apk_analyzer/phase0/sensitive_api_matcher.py`): walks callgraph edges, matches callees to catalog signatures, and emits `sensitive_api_hits.json` with reachability hints.
- **Artifacts**: `artifacts/{analysis_id}/seeds/sensitive_api_hits.json`.

Stage D: Case-driven slices
- **Recon** builds cases from `sensitive_api_hits.json` and requests slices only where required.
- **Context bundles** (`src/apk_analyzer/analyzers/context_bundle_builder.py`): creates per-case slices and FCG neighborhoods for LLM prompts.

Stage D: LLM reasoning (dynamic-analysis focused)
- **Recon**: builds investigation cases from `sensitive_api_hits.json`.
- **Tier1**: summarizes behavior **and** extracts execution constraints (branch predicates, required inputs, triggers).
- **Verifier**: enforces evidence grounding (non-LLM consistency check).
- **Tier2**: produces a driver plan (ADB/UI Automator/Frida friendly) and environment setup checklist.
- **Artifacts**: `artifacts/{analysis_id}/llm/*` with JSON outputs.

Stage E: Targeted taint analysis (optional)
- **FlowDroid CLI jar** (`src/apk_analyzer/tools/flowdroid_tools.py`): runs taint analysis using a generated sources/sinks subset based on categories present in verified cases.
- **Usage**: summary is fed into Tier2 to suggest entrypoint triggers and taint-confirmation steps.
- **Artifacts**: `artifacts/{analysis_id}/taint/flowdroid_summary.json`.

Stage F: Reporting + MITRE mapping
- **MITRE mapping** (`config/mitre/` + `src/apk_analyzer/analyzers/mitre_mapper.py`): maps extracted evidence to ATT&CK techniques.
- **Report**: includes `driver_guidance` synthesized from Tier-2 outputs for dynamic analysis.
  - `artifacts/{analysis_id}/report/threat_report.json` and `.md`.

## Repo Layout

- `src/apk_analyzer/`: Python pipeline and agent logic
- `java/soot-extractor/`: Java Soot extractor (Gradle)
- `config/`: settings, schemas, suspicious API catalog, SourcesAndSinks, MITRE mapping
- `config/android_sensitive_api_catalog.json`: catalog-driven sensitive API definitions for recon
- `scripts/`: entrypoints and helpers
- `tests/`: unit tests
- `FlowDroid/`: upstream FlowDroid repo (for CLI build)

## Requirements (Local)

- Python >= 3.10
- JDK 17 (Soot extractor + FlowDroid)
- Android SDK platforms directory (for Soot/FlowDroid)
- Maven + Gradle (to build FlowDroid CLI jar and Soot extractor)

## Quickstart (Local)

1) Install Python deps:

```bash
python -m pip install -e .
```

2) Build the Soot extractor:

```bash
gradle -p java/soot-extractor jar
```

3) Build FlowDroid CLI jar:

```bash
mvn -f FlowDroid/pom.xml -pl soot-infoflow-cmd -am package -DskipTests
```

4) Configure `config/settings.yaml`:

- `analysis.android_platforms_dir` should point to your Android SDK `platforms/` directory.
- `analysis.flowdroid_jar_path` should point to `FlowDroid/soot-infoflow-cmd/target/soot-infoflow-cmd-jar-with-dependencies.jar`.
- `analysis.soot_extractor_jar_path` should point to `java/soot-extractor/build/libs/soot-extractor.jar`.

5) Run analysis (default combined mode requires both APK path and Knox APK ID):

```bash
python -m apk_analyzer.main --apk /path/to/app.apk --knox-id <apk_id>
```

APK-only mode (opt-in):

```bash
python -m apk_analyzer.main --mode apk-only --apk /path/to/app.apk
```

Artifacts are written under `artifacts/{analysis_id}/`.

## Docker Setup (Recommended for FlowDroid/Soot)

Docker provides a consistent Ubuntu + JDK + Android SDK environment with Android platforms 25-36 preinstalled.

### First-time setup

1) Initialize submodules (FlowDroid):

```bash
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

2) Build the Docker image:

```bash
docker compose build
```

3) Bootstrap toolchain inside the container (Python deps + Soot extractor + FlowDroid jar):

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag ./scripts/docker_bootstrap.sh
```

By default this builds a **release** FlowDroid jar (v2.14.1) in a temp dir to avoid snapshot dependency issues.
To build from the submodule instead:

```bash
docker compose run --rm \
  -e FLOWDROID_BUILD_MODE=source \
  aag ./scripts/docker_bootstrap.sh
```

To override the release tag used for the temp build:

```bash
docker compose run --rm \
  -e FLOWDROID_TAG=v2.14.1 \
  aag ./scripts/docker_bootstrap.sh
```

### Run analysis (Docker)

Place APKs inside the repo (or mount a folder) so they are visible under `/workspace`:

```bash
cp /path/to/app.apk ./data/app.apk
```

APK + Knox ID:

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag \
  python -m apk_analyzer.main --apk /workspace/path/to/app.apk --knox-id <apk_id>
```

APK-only mode (JADX-based):

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag \
  python -m apk_analyzer.main --mode apk-only --apk /workspace/path/to/app.apk
```

Interactive shell:

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag
```

## Telemetry UI (Grafana + Tempo + Loki)

The project ships a Docker-based telemetry stack so you can inspect agent progress, LLM I/O, and tool/API spans in a browser.

### Start the UI stack

```bash
docker compose up -d grafana tempo loki otel-collector
```

### Enable telemetry in settings

Edit `config/settings.yaml`:

```yaml
telemetry:
  enabled: true
  service_name: "apk-analysis-agent"
  otlp_endpoint: "http://otel-collector:4317"
  otlp_insecure: true
```

### Run an analysis (emits traces)

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag \
  python -m apk_analyzer.main --mode apk-only --apk /workspace/path/to/app.apk
```

### Open Grafana and view traces

1) Open `http://localhost:3000` (Grafana).
2) Navigate to **Explore** -> select **Tempo** datasource.
3) Filter by attributes like:
   - `analysis_id`
   - `run_id`
   - `stage`
   - `tool_name`
4) For LLM calls, span events include:
   - `llm.input` -> `artifacts/{analysis_id}/llm_inputs/...`
   - `llm.output` -> `artifacts/{analysis_id}/llm_outputs/...`

Notes:
- Tempo stores traces; Loki is provisioned but log export is not enabled yet.
- If you change `requirements.txt` or telemetry config files, rebuild the image with `docker compose build`.

## Run Observability UI (FastAPI)

This UI is purpose-built for debugging the pipeline: it shows **seeding details, recon output, Soot stats, slice counts, Knox API calls, tool invocations, and exact LLM prompts/returns** per run.

### Start the UI server

```bash
docker compose up -d obs-ui
```

### Run an analysis (emits run ledger)

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag \
  python -m apk_analyzer.main --mode apk-only --apk /workspace/path/to/app.apk
```

### Open the UI

- Run list: `http://localhost:8000/runs`
- Run details: click an analysis/run ID to view stage timeline, seeding stats, recon output, Soot stats, API/tool events, and LLM I/O.

Each run writes its own `observability/runs/<run_id>.jsonl` log, so reruns of the same APK no longer mix trace events.
Artifacts are linked directly (e.g. `llm_inputs/`, `llm_outputs/`, `graphs/slices/`) so you can inspect the exact payloads.

### Rebuild after FlowDroid changes

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag \
  mvn -f FlowDroid/pom.xml -pl soot-infoflow-cmd -am package -DskipTests
```

### Rebuild after Soot extractor changes

```bash
docker compose run --rm aag \
  gradle -p java/soot-extractor jar
```

Notes:
- The repo is mounted at `/workspace`.
- `ANDROID_SDK_ROOT` is set to `/opt/android-sdk`, and `analysis.android_platforms_dir` auto-resolves to `/opt/android-sdk/platforms` if unset.
- `jadx` is preinstalled at `/opt/jadx/bin/jadx` and available on `PATH`.
- `KNOX_BASE_URL` defaults to `http://105.145.72.82:8081/api/v1` in `docker-compose.yml` and can be overridden via env.
- Artifacts are written to `/workspace/artifacts/{analysis_id}/` on the host.

## Input Requirements

Default (combined) mode requires both:
- `--apk` path on disk
- `--knox-id` (Knox APK ID)

APK-only mode requires:
- `--apk` path on disk
- `--mode apk-only`

## Configuration

Key settings live in `config/settings.yaml`:

- `knox.base_url`: Knox Vision API base URL.
- `analysis.android_platforms_dir`: Android SDK platforms folder.
- `analysis.flowdroid_jar_path`: FlowDroid CLI jar path.
- `analysis.soot_extractor_jar_path`: Soot extractor jar path.
- `analysis.jadx_path`: JADX binary or jar (used in apk-only mode).
- `analysis.jadx_timeout_sec`: JADX decompile timeout.
- `analysis.callgraph_algo`: `SPARK` or `CHA`.
- `analysis.k_hop`: call graph neighborhood hops.
- `analysis.max_seed_count`: maximum seeds to process.
- `llm.provider`: LLM provider (use `vertex` for API key auth).
- `llm.api_key`: API key (or use `VERTEX_API_KEY` / `GOOGLE_API_KEY` env).
- `llm.verify_ssl`: Set `false` to disable SSL verification for Vertex calls (PoC only).
- `telemetry.enabled`: Enable OpenTelemetry export.
- `telemetry.otlp_endpoint`: OTLP endpoint for traces (default `http://otel-collector:4317` in Docker).
- `observability.enabled`: Enable the run ledger (`observability/run.jsonl`) consumed by the UI.

Env overrides:

- `KNOX_BASE_URL` overrides `knox.base_url`.
- `ANDROID_SDK_ROOT` will auto-set `analysis.android_platforms_dir` to `$ANDROID_SDK_ROOT/platforms` if unset.

## Vertex AI (LLM) Setup

The PoC includes a minimal Vertex client that supports **API key auth** for public Gemini models. Enable `llm.enabled` in `config/settings.yaml` and configure an API key (supported) or add your own OAuth-based client for service accounts (not wired here).

### Option A) API key (supported)

1) Enable Vertex AI API + billing in GCP Console.

2) Create an API key in the same project.

3) Export the key (or set it in `config/settings.yaml`):

```bash
export VERTEX_API_KEY=your_api_key
```

You can also use `GOOGLE_API_KEY` if preferred.

4) Update settings:

```yaml
llm:
  enabled: true
  provider: "vertex"
  api_key: ""  # optional if VERTEX_API_KEY is set
  model_orchestrator: "gemini-2.5-flash-lite"
  model_recon: "gemini-2.5-flash-lite"
  model_tier1: "gemini-2.5-flash-lite"
  model_verifier: "gemini-2.5-flash-lite"
  model_tier2: "gemini-2.5-flash-lite"
  model_report: "gemini-2.5-flash-lite"
```

### Option B) Service account (not wired in this PoC)

If you need ADC/service-account auth (for private models), you'll need to add an OAuth-based client. The basic credential steps are:

1) Create a service account with `Vertex AI User` role.
2) Download its JSON key.
3) Set:

```bash
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/service-account.json
export GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT=<your-gcp-project-id>
export GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION=<your-region>
```

### Docker + Vertex credentials

Service account in Docker:

```bash
docker compose run --rm \
  -e GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/workspace/keys/sa.json \
  -e GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT=<project-id> \
  -e GOOGLE_CLOUD_LOCATION=us-central1 \
  -v /local/keys:/workspace/keys \
  aag
```

API key in Docker:

```bash
docker compose run --rm \
  -e VERTEX_API_KEY=your_api_key \
  aag
```

## Tests

```bash
pytest
```

## Notes

- FlowDroid and Soot require Android platform jars. If analyses fail with classpath errors, verify `analysis.android_platforms_dir`.
- APK-only mode runs JADX in a temp directory that is deleted after analysis; if JADX is missing or fails, the pipeline falls back to DEX-only seeding with reduced recall.
- LLM integration uses Vertex API keys for public Gemini models; service-account auth requires a custom client.
