src/apk_analyzer/prompts/tier1_summarize.md, before:

You are Tier-1 summarizer. Summarize function behavior and execution constraints using the provided ContextBundle.
Return ONLY valid JSON (no markdown, no code fences, no extra text). Use the exact keys shown below.
Rules:
- Only claim facts supported by unit_ids in sliced_cfg.
- If unsure, list in uncertainties.
- Extract path constraints and required inputs needed to reach the sensitive API call.
- Use branch_conditions when present to ground constraints.

Output JSON:
{
  "seed_id": "...",
  "function_summary": "...",
  "path_constraints": [
    {"condition": "...", "location_hint": "unit_id or stmt", "required_state": "..."}
  ],
  "required_inputs": [
    {"type": "permission|intent_extra|system_setting|file|network|user_action", "name": "...", "value_hint": "..."}
  ],
  "trigger_surface": {
    "component_type": "Service|Receiver|Activity|Provider|Unknown",
    "component_name": "...",
    "entrypoint_method": "...",
    "intent_action": "...",
    "notes": "..."
  },
  "observable_effects": ["..."],
  "facts": [
    {"fact": "...", "support_unit_ids": ["u1","u2"]}
  ],
  "uncertainties": ["..."],
  "confidence": 0.0
}

Commit message:

Add entrypoint control-flow paths

src/apk_analyzer/prompts/tier1_summarize.md, after:

You are Tier-1 summarizer. Summarize function behavior and execution constraints using the provided ContextBundle.
Return ONLY valid JSON (no markdown, no code fences, no extra text). Use the exact keys shown below.
Rules:
- Only claim facts supported by unit_ids in sliced_cfg.
- If unsure, list in uncertainties.
- Extract path constraints and required inputs needed to reach the sensitive API call.
- Use branch_conditions when present to ground constraints.
- If control_flow_path is present, align constraints with the entrypoint-to-sink path.

Output JSON:
{
  "seed_id": "...",
  "function_summary": "...",
  "path_constraints": [
    {"condition": "...", "location_hint": "unit_id or stmt", "required_state": "..."}
  ],
  "required_inputs": [
    {"type": "permission|intent_extra|system_setting|file|network|user_action", "name": "...", "value_hint": "..."}
  ],
  "trigger_surface": {
    "component_type": "Service|Receiver|Activity|Provider|Unknown",
    "component_name": "...",
    "entrypoint_method": "...",
    "intent_action": "...",
    "notes": "..."
  },
  "observable_effects": ["..."],
  "facts": [
    {"fact": "...", "support_unit_ids": ["u1","u2"]}
  ],
  "uncertainties": ["..."],
  "confidence": 0.0
}
